SCHEMA DESIGN:

1. Learn embedding vs referencing.

Can you explain the difference between embedding and referencing in MongoDB, and when you would use one over the other?

Ans:
Sure. In MongoDB, embedding means storing related data directly inside the same document. 
For example, a blog post might embed the author's name and email right in the post document. 
This is efficient when the data is always accessed together, doesn't change often, and the relationship is one-to-few.

On the other hand, referencing means storing related data in separate documents and linking them using a reference—like storing the authorId in the post document and retrieving the author's data from the users collection. 
This is useful for many-to-many relationships or when the related data is large or changes frequently.

For instance, if I were designing an e-commerce platform, I’d use referencing between users and orders, 
since a user can have many orders and we might want to update user data without affecting all orders. 
But if I were designing a product document with specifications, I might embed those specs,
 because they’re tightly coupled and rarely reused elsewhere.

CONCEPT:

*In document databases like MongoDB, we use embedding to store related data within a single document, and referencing to link related documents using a reference ID."
I prefer embedding when the relationship is one-to-few, the related data doesn't change often, and it's always accessed together."

I use referencing for large or frequently updated data, or many-to-many relationships—like users and their orders in an e-commerce platform.

Embedding improves read performance and simplifies queries, while referencing improves flexibility and avoids data duplication 
but might require more joins or lookups.

Embedding:

{
  "_id": "post1",
  "title": "My Blog Post",
  "author": {
    "name": "Alice",
    "email": "alice@example.com"
  }
}

referencing:

// Post document
{
  "_id": "post1",
  "title": "My Blog Post",
  "authorId": "user123"
}

// User document
{
  "_id": "user123",
  "name": "Alice"
}

💡 When to Use Each
Situation	                       Prefer Embedding	         Prefer Referencing
One-to-one or one-to-few	             ✅	                        ❌
Data always accessed together	         ✅	                        ❌
Data changes frequently	                 ❌                          ✅
Avoiding data duplication is important	 ❌	                        ✅
Many-to-many relationships               ❌	                        ✅



-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Can you explain what normalization and denormalization are, and when you would use each?

In MongoDB, we often choose between embedding and referencing based on access patterns and data relationships. 
Embedding is a form of denormalization where related data is stored in the same document, which improves read performance and simplifies 
queries—ideal for data that is frequently read together and rarely updated separately.

Referencing is like normalization: 
we keep data in separate documents and link them using ObjectIDs. It’s better for data that changes frequently, 
is reused across collections, or could grow large.

For example, if I’m building a blog platform, 
I might embed comments inside a post document if there are only a few. But if each post can have thousands of comments,
 I’d store them in a separate collection and reference the post.